# ETL Pipelines with Airflow
Data Pipelines with airflow migrating data from s3 to Redshift.   
    
## Project Introduction:
For the 5th project of the udacity Data Engineering NanoDegree
I developed a data pipeline for the music streaming company Sparkify. has decided that it is time to introduce more automation and monitoring to their data warehouse ETL pipelines and come to the conclusion that the best tool to achieve this is Apache Airflow. They have also noted that the data quality plays a big part when analyses are executed on top the data warehouse and want to run tests against their datasets after the ETL steps have been executed to catch any discrepancies in the datasets.    
The source data resides in S3 and needs to be processed in Sparkify's data warehouse in Amazon Redshift. The source datasets consist of JSON logs that tell about user activity in the application and JSON metadata about the songs the users listen to.
    
### Project Steps:      
#### Create Table Schemas:     
* Configure the DAG
* Build the Operators: Stage Operator, Fact and Dimension Operators & Data Quality Operator

##### Fact Table
__songplays__ - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page `NextSong`
* songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
##### Dimension Tables
__users__ - users in the app
* user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
__songs__ - songs in music database
* song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
__artists__ - artists in music database
*artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
__time__ - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
* start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

### Project files:     
* The __dag template__ has all the imports and task templates in place, but the task dependencies have not been set
* The __operators__ folder with operator templates
* A __helper class__ for the SQL transformations


### Song Dataset:    
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the [Million Song Dataset](https://labrosa.ee.columbia.edu/millionsong). Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
    
```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```
    
And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.
    
```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```
    
### Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this [event simulator](https://github.com/Interana/eventsim) based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.
    
```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```